[WIP] rewriting 'Overview' page, as simply as possible (#209)
fusedio/fused-docs: docs/index.mdx

# Meet Fused

Fused Workbench is an end-to-end cloud platform for data analytics. Fused revolves around Python functions that can be called via HTTP requests, called User Defined Functions ([UDFs](/core-concepts/why/)).

<!--

<img src="https://fused-magic.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/main_marketing_website/product_diagram_october2024.png" alt="product_diagram_october2024" style={{}} />

-->

## First look

User Defined Functions are Python functions that run on the Fused backend with a HTTP endpoint. Here's an example:

```python showLineNumbers
@fused.udf
def udf():
    import geopandas as gpd
    import requests
    

>     DATASET = 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/python-visualization/folium-example-data/main/subway_stations.geojson'
>     return gpd.GeoDataFrame.from_features(requests.get(DATASET).json())

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    DATASET = 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/python-visualization/folium-example-data/main/subway_stations.geojson'
    return gpd.read_file(DATASET)
```
?

# Meet Fused

Fused Workbench is an end-to-end cloud platform for data analytics. 

> The core principle behind Fused are Python functions that can be run via HTTP requests, called **User Defined Functions ([UDFs](/core-concepts/why/))**.

Reviewer 2: This seems to be missing the geospatial aspect of the workbench. It is not a general platform, but has features (like the map) that are specific to geospatial data.

> The core principle behind Fused are Python functions that can be run via HTTP requests, called **User Defined Functions ([UDFs](/core-concepts/why/))**.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure UDFs are a "core principle" (a fundamental belief or value). Maybe a "core feature"?

<!--

<img src="https://fused-magic.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/main_marketing_website/product_diagram_october2024.png" alt="product_diagram_october2024" style={{}} />

-->

## First look

_We're going to create a simple User Defined Function and return it's results in a Google Sheets. Feel free to follow along by [first making sure you can login](/user-guide/login)._

**User Defined Functions** are Python functions that run on the Fused backend with a HTTP endpoint. 

> Here's an example, we're going to load New York City metro station, taken from a GeoJSON directly hosted on Github [from the `folium-example-data` public repo](https://github.com/python-visualization/folium-example-data):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As an example, we're going to load New York City metro station, taken from a GeoJSON directly hosted on Github [from the `folium-example-data` public repo](https://github.com/python-visualization/folium-example-data):
```

Reviewer 2: Suggest avoiding use of the full "User Defined Function" after the acronym has been introduced.

Reviewer 2: "a Google Sheets" -> "a Google Sheet"

> 

Reviewer 2: Suggest adding a sentence describing what the UDF does, because it is referred to later in the page.
Something like:
"This UDF converts a remote file stored on GitHub using [GeoPandas](https://geopandas.org/), and converts the data to a [GeoDataFrame](https://geopandas.org/en/stable/docs/reference/api/geopandas.GeoDataFrame.html) object."

<!-- This section doesn't fully acknowledge that you need to pip install fused if you want to run this locally or that workbench is required. -->
```python showLineNumbers
@fused.udf
def udf():
    import geopandas as gpd
    
    return gpd.read_file(
        'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/python-visualization/folium-example-data/main/subway_stations.geojson'
    )
```

All you need to make a Python function a Fused User Defined Function is to add the `@fused.udf()` decorator to it.

> You'll also note that we do our imports _inside_ the UDF. We'll touch on that in a later section.

Reviewer 3: "We'll touch on that later" is excellent. There's several other concepts that can be handled similarly.

<!-- #TODO: Actually, you know, touch on that later -->

### Running your first User Defined Function

The simplest place to edit a User Defined Function is on [the Fused workbench](https://www.fused.io/workbench), a browser based IDE. 

> Check out the [Login page to get access](/user-guide/login). 

Reviewer 2: This is the second time that login/access is mention. Suggest consolidating.

Author: I did this on purpose since Login is required, and it's something I think people may have missed in the first part if they're scrolling through 

You might argue it should be in the only place would read it then

Reviewer 2: Maybe describe it fully in one place, but then link back to it in later sections?

![First Look Fused Workbench](./index-imgs/Workbench-first-look.png) 

> Fused Workbench runs your UDF in real-time. You don't need to execute your code, it's always running, you can see it in the screen shot above:

Reviewer 3: "User Defined Function" is used up until this point, then suddenly switches to "UDF". Should this page use "UDF" from the second reference onward, or is there a reason to continue to use the unabbreviated name?

Reviewer 2: +1

Author: Good points, thank you both

Reworded

> 1. Our UDF

Reviewer 2: For consistancy with #2 and #3:
"Our UDF" -> "Our UDF script in the UDF Builder"

> 2. The NYC subway stations from the geodataframe in the map view

Reviewer 2: "the geodataframe" hasn't been introduced previously. Suggest removing this preposition.

Reviewer 2: Suggest capitalizing Map View to make in consistent with the screenshot labels.

3. We don't have any errors in the Results Page

:::info

> You can also write & run any UDF locally, you don't _need_ the Fused Workbench IDE. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can also write & run any UDF in your preferred Python environment - the Fused Workbench IDE isn't strictly required. 
```

(suggestion)

Reviewer 3: The clarification sentence below is excellent.

We'll show how to run your UDF in workbench for now, as that's the simplest way to get started

:::

### Share your User Defined Function

One of the most powerful aspects of Fused is that each UDF can be shared, as a HTTP endpoint. 

> Here's how to share our `GeoDataFrame` from Workbench into Google Sheets:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here's how to return our `GeoDataFrame` from the UDF defined in Workbench to Google Sheets:
```

(suggestion, for readability)

Author: That's a good point Tyler, I've added a bit of context earlier on in `First Look`. I do totally take `geopandas` for granted but I shouldn't have

import ReactPlayer from 'react-player'

<ReactPlayer className="video__player" playing={true} muted={true} controls height="100%" url="https://fused-magic.s3.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/workbench-walkthrough-videos/docs_rewrite/share_udf_to_sheets_updated.mp4" width="100%" />

## Next Steps

<!-- #TODO: Update links once the docs are updated with new structure-->
<!-- #TODO #2: We don't have a page dedicated to workbench-->
This should give you a first taste of what Fused is. For more, check out:

> - Our [quick start example that walks you through a full end-to-end data science example](/user-guide/quickstart)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Our [quick start example](/user-guide/quickstart) that walks you through a full end-to-end data science example
```

Author: More readable indeed

> - Get to know what [UDF, User Defined Functions, are in more depth](/core-concepts/why)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Get to know [User Defined Functions](/core-concepts/why) in more depth
```

> - Become more familiar with Workbench, our browser based, no install required, IDE.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Become more familiar with the [UDF Builder](/workbench/udf-builder/), the browser based, no install required, IDE
```

Reviewer 2: The series of commas for the interjection seem awkward. How about:
... UDF Builder, our browser-based IDE (no install required)

> - Deep dive into `fused-py`, [how to use it locally and everything you can do with it](/python-sdk)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Deep dive into the Fused Python SDK, [how to use it locally and everything you can do with it](/python-sdk)
```

The library is referred to as "Python SDK", "fused-py", and is referred to as "fused" in pypi. Perhaps we keep "fused-py" as an internal name so we have consistent naming externally? Open to pushback here if there's a good reason.

Author: Adding this as one of our talking points for today
